392F--- Software design and program synthesis, including automatic programming, transformation systems, generative programming (metaprogramming), software product lines, feature models, compositional verification, metaobject protocols and aspect-oriented programming, feature interactions, multidimensional separation of concerns, modularly extensible programming languages, program algebras and category theory, and model-driven engineering. Computer Sciences 392F and 395T (Topic: Feature-Oriented Programming) may not both be counted. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and a basic knowledge of Java, compilers and grammars, and object-oriented design methods.---EOC386S--- Techniques and research in Internet and network security. Computer Sciences 386S and 395T (Topic: Secure Network Protocols) may not both be counted. Prerequisite: Graduate standing.---EOC392C--- Models of parallel fundamental concepts for representation of parallel computation structures, study of representative parallel programming languages, formulation of languages and translation methods, translation of parallel programs to multiple targets, laboratory exercises in parallel programming. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.---EOC396M--- Topics include routing, multiple access, internetworking, security, performance models, and verification methods. Prerequisite: Graduate standing.---EOC386W--- Fundamental concepts and principles of wireless network technologies and protocol design, ranging from physical layer to application layer, and in-depth studies of current wireless research. Computer Sciences 386W and 395T (Topic: Wireless Networking) may not both be counted. Prerequisite: Graduate standing.---EOC386K--- The analysis of numerical methods for solving ordinary and partial differential equations. Only one of the following may be counted: Computational and Applied Mathematics 386K, Computer Sciences 386K, Mathematics 383G. Prerequisite: Graduate standing; and Computational and Applied Mathematics 383D, Computer Sciences 383D, Mathematics 368K, 383F, or consent of instructor.---EOC386L--- Topics include formal syntax representations, program correctness, typing, and data abstraction. Features and problems in languages that allow parallelism. Exploration of different programming styles, such as imperative, functional, logic, data flow, and object-oriented programming. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 345 or consent of instructor.---preReqModules: 1--- imperative , functional , logic , data flow---[Ljava.lang.Object;@445a34fb
EOC386M--- Switching techniques, network and protocol architectures, communication protocols, resource allocation problems, internetworking, design and analysis methods. Prerequisite: Graduate standing.---EOC386C--- System models from synchronous to asynchronous, with emphasis on in-between models such as the timed asynchronous model. Control structures such as timed state-transition systems, and constraints in temporal and real-time logics. Analysis techniques such as model checking of timed systems, and extended Presburger arithmetic. Basic building blocks such as clock synchronization, synchronous atomic broadcast, time-bounded membership protocols, real-time scheduling theory, and state recovery methods. Practical implementation issues such as special operating system data structures and algorithms, open system design, and security concerns. Computer Sciences 386C and 395T (Topic: Dependable Computing Systems) may not both be counted. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and an undergraduate course in operating systems or consent of instructor.---EOC386D--- Introduction to the principles of database systems, including fundamental ideas and algorithms used in the construction of centralized database management systems, distributed database management systems, and database machines and their roles in Internet infrastructure. Topics include data storage and indexing algorithms, query processing and optimization, concurrency control, recovery, XML and object-oriented databases, database evaluation and tuning, and recent directions in database research. Computer Sciences 386 and 386D may not both be counted; Computer Sciences 386D and 387H may not both be counted. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and Computer Sciences 347 and 375.---preReqModules: 2--- database systems---[Ljava.lang.Object;@7e4c6dcb
preReqModules: 3--- centralized database management systems---[Ljava.lang.Object;@4bbc6b34
preReqModules: 4--- database management systems---[Ljava.lang.Object;@3f2249c4
preReqModules: 5--- database machines---[Ljava.lang.Object;@6419033d
preReqModules: 6--- data storage and indexing algorithms---[Ljava.lang.Object;@2623cd22
preReqModules: 7--- query processing and optimization---[Ljava.lang.Object;@787086bd
preReqModules: 8--- concurrency control---[Ljava.lang.Object;@239e2011
preReqModules: 9--- database evaluation and tuning---[Ljava.lang.Object;@624b4e5b
EOC391K--- Advanced course in artificial intelligence. Topics include planning, probabilistic reasoning, truth maintenance, abduction, model-based diagnosis, and speech recognition. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 381K or equivalent knowledge of artificial intelligence and LISP.---EOC391L--- Computing systems that automatically improve their performance with experience, including various approaches to inductive classification such as version space, decision tree, rule-based, neural network, Bayesian, and instance-based methods; as well as computational learning theory, explanation-based learning, and knowledge refinement. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 381K or equivalent knowledge of artificial intelligence and LISP.---EOC380L--- Study of the formal structure, design principles, organization, implementation, and performance analysis of multiprogramming and/or multiprocessor computer systems. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 372 or consent of instructor.---EOC380N--- Theory and applications of Markovian models: birth-death models, queueing models, and networks of queues. Numerical methods: computational algorithms, approximation techniques, discrete-event simulation. Performance of scheduling disciplines: priority, time-sharing, multiple access. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and an undergraduate course in probability theory.---EOC380P--- Explores parallel systems, from languages to hardware, from large-scale parallel computers to multicore chips, and from traditional parallel scientific computing to modern uses of parallelism. Includes discussion of and research methods in graphics, languages, compilers, architecture, and scientific computing. Computer Sciences 380P and 395T (Topic: Parallel Systems) may not both be counted. Prerequisite: Graduate standing.---EOC380S--- Survey of modern security, designed to introduce the basic techniques used in the design and analysis of secure systems. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 353 and 372 or consent of instructor.---preReqModules: 10--- secure systems---[Ljava.lang.Object;@3e056ac7
EOC384R--- Computational image processing, computational geometry and geometric modeling algorithms with an emphasis on spatial realism, and the programmatic use of physiological simulation and visualization to quantitatively depict how things work at the molecular, cellular, tissue, organ, and system levels. Computer Sciences 384R and 395T (Topic: Graphics, Modeling, and Visualization) may not both be counted; Computer Sciences 384R and 395T (Topic: Multiscale Bio-Modeling and Visualization) may not both be counted; Computer Sciences 384R and 395T (Topic: Physically Based Geometric Modeling) may not both be counted. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 354 or consent of instructor.---preReqModules: 11--- Computational image processing---[Ljava.lang.Object;@55a54ea0
preReqModules: 12--- computational geometry and geometric modeling---[Ljava.lang.Object;@57cd164d
preReqModules: 13--- spatial realism---[Ljava.lang.Object;@59734643
preReqModules: 14--- physiological simulation---[Ljava.lang.Object;@1f0a0696
EOC384V--- Basic techniques required to design custom negative metal oxide semiconductor digital integrated circuits. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 352 or consent of instructor.---preReqModules: 15--- custom negative metal oxide semiconductor digital integrated circuits---[Ljava.lang.Object;@4b3671c5
EOC388L--- Introduction to some of the principal topics of mathematical logic: propositional and predicate calculus; Gödel's completeness theorem; first-order theories; formalizing mathematical reasoning; first-order arithmetic; recursive functions; Gödel's incompleteness theorems; axiomatic set theory. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and experience in abstract mathematical thinking.---EOC394R--- Introduces the theory and practice of modern reinforcement learning, with emphasis on temporal difference learning algorithms. Computer Sciences 394R and 395T (Topic: Reinforcement Learning: Theory and Practice) may not both be counted. Prerequisite: Graduate standing.---EOC388M--- Covers the most important models of communication complexity and their applications, including recent research results and various open problems. Computer Sciences 388M and 395T (Topic: Communication Complexity) may not both be counted. Prerequisite: Graduate standing.---EOC388P--- Parallel algorithm design on shared memory machines (PRAMs); parallel complexity results; lower bounds; relationship of PRAM model to other models of parallel computation. Prerequisite: Graduate standing; and Computer Sciences 357 or the equivalent, or Computer Sciences 388G, or consent of instructor.---preReqModules: 16--- shared memory machines---[Ljava.lang.Object;@63676316
preReqModules: 17--- parallel complexity results---[Ljava.lang.Object;@189a6c56
preReqModules: 18--- lower bounds---[Ljava.lang.Object;@423e8eb8
EOC394N--- Biological information processing; architectures and algorithms for supervised learning, self-organization, reinforcement learning, and neuro-evolution; theoretical analysis; hardware implementations and simulators; applications in engineering, artificial intelligence, and cognitive science. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.---EOC388R--- The design and analysis of efficient randomized algorithms. Computer Sciences 388R and 395T (Topic: Randomized Algorithms) may not both be counted. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 357 or consent of instructor.---EOC394P--- Automatic generation of computer programs from high-level specifications. Program analysis, optimization, and transformation; partial evaluation; object-oriented programming; transformation of formal specifications; specialization of generic procedures; views. Prerequisite: Graduate standing. Computer Sciences 375 and 381K are recommended.---preReqModules: 19--- partial evaluation---[Ljava.lang.Object;@190bf402
preReqModules: 20--- generic procedures---[Ljava.lang.Object;@5fc0bc26
EOC388C--- Counting, matching theory, extremal set theory, Ramsey theory, probabilistic method, linear algebra method, coding theory. Applications to computer science, including randomized algorithms. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 336 or the equivalent or consent of instructor. An understanding of elementary proof and counting techniques is assumed.---preReqModules: 21--- matching theory , extremal set theory---[Ljava.lang.Object;@668093e6
preReqModules: 22--- coding theory---[Ljava.lang.Object;@36e159d
preReqModules: 23--- randomized algorithms---[Ljava.lang.Object;@304cf82d
EOC388F--- Formal grammars, languages and related classes of automata, language hierarchies, operations on languages, decidability, related complexity issues, closure properties, other classes of automata. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Linguistics 340 or consent of instructor.---EOC388H--- Surveys the foundations of cryptography from formal notions of security to fundamental protocols, including one-way functions, encryption, pseudorandom generators, signature schemes, and zero-knowledge. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 353 or consent of instructor.---preReqModules: 24--- pseudorandom generators---[Ljava.lang.Object;@d396b21
EOC388G--- Sorting and searching algorithms, graph algorithms, algorithm design techniques, lower bound theory, fast Fourier transforms, NP-completeness. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 357 or the equivalent or consent of instructor.---preReqModules: 25--- graph algorithms---[Ljava.lang.Object;@34a84a4f
preReqModules: 26--- lower bound theory---[Ljava.lang.Object;@14a6a38b
EOC381K--- Use of computers in problem solving, game playing, theorem proving, natural language understanding, and related tasks; methods of search, knowledge representation, learning, and other topics. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 351 or consent of instructor.---preReqModules: 27--- natural language understanding---[Ljava.lang.Object;@483b0544
preReqModules: 28--- related tasks---[Ljava.lang.Object;@1ad6d868
EOC398T--- Supervised teaching experience, and seminar focused on curriculum construction and teaching methods. Offered on the credit/no credit basis only. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and appointment as a teaching assistant.---EOC394F--- Surveys the research and practice of building knowledge systems, including knowledge representation, automated reasoning, knowledge acquisition, and explanation generation. Prerequisite: Graduate standing; and Computer Sciences 381K or the equivalent or consent of instructor.---EOC388S--- Sequential execution: partial and total correctness; deductive, operational, and denotational semantics; formal derivation of programs; parallel execution: partial correctness, deadlock, and starvation; methodology, parallel versus distributed execution. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.---EOC388T--- Models of computation, decidability, complexity theory, relations between complexity classes, reductions, and completeness; NP-complete problems, randomized computation; approximability; circuit complexity; parallel computation. Prerequisite: Graduate standing, and Computer Sciences 353 or the equivalent or consent of instructor.---preReqModules: 29--- complexity theory---[Ljava.lang.Object;@f19a19c
preReqModules: 30--- complexity classes---[Ljava.lang.Object;@5bc11082
preReqModules: 31--- randomized computation---[Ljava.lang.Object;@6022f5dd
preReqModules: 32--- circuit complexity---[Ljava.lang.Object;@173bb17a
EOC384M--- Theoretical and practical issues in advanced systems, including multimedia systems, digital audio and video compression techniques, operating system and network support for digital audio and video, and multimedia conferencing systems. Prerequisite: Graduate standing; and either Computer Sciences 356 and 372 or 380D and 380L.---preReqModules: 33--- advanced systems---[Ljava.lang.Object;@5000cc80
preReqModules: 34--- multimedia systems---[Ljava.lang.Object;@64721088
preReqModules: 35--- digital audio and video compression techniques---[Ljava.lang.Object;@7c9b843c
preReqModules: 36--- operating system and network support---[Ljava.lang.Object;@4606bf0d
preReqModules: 37--- digital audio and video---[Ljava.lang.Object;@64e91265
preReqModules: 38--- multimedia conferencing systems---[Ljava.lang.Object;@1b6d8a5
EOC389R--- The development of a formal theory for reasoning about computer programs, with emphasis on recursively defined functions in the LISP style and proof by mathematical induction. Heavy emphasis on student discovery and presentation of proofs. Prerequisite: Graduate standing.---EOC384G--- Same as Computational and Applied Mathematics 384G. Advanced material in computer graphics, including in-depth treatments of techniques for realistic image synthesis, advanced geometric modeling methods, animation and dynamic simulation, scientific visualization, and high-performance graphics architectures. Prerequisite: Graduate standing; and Computer Sciences 354 or another introductory course in computer graphics, or equivalent background and consent of instructor.---preReqModules: 39--- realistic image synthesis---[Ljava.lang.Object;@b493984
preReqModules: 40--- geometric mo